Project 2: Wrangling and Exploratory Data Analysis {.title .toc-ignore}
==================================================

#### *CMSC320* {.author}

**Posted:** March 20, 2019\
 **Last Updated:** Mar 20, 2019\
 **Due:** April 5, 2019

In this project you will apply your data wrangling and exploratory data
analysis skills to baseball business data. In particular, we want to
know how well did Moneyball work for the Oakland Aâ€™s. Was it worthy of a
movie?

![](data:image/jpeg;base64,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)

A bit of background
===================

Weâ€™ll be looking at data about teams in Major League Baseball. A couple
of important points to remember:

-   Major League Baseball is a professional baseball league, where teams
    pay players to play baseball.
-   The goal of each team is to win as many games out of a 162 game
    season as possible.
-   Teams win games by scoring more runs than their adversary.
-   In principle, better players are costlier so teams that want good
    players need to spend more money.
-   Teams that spend the most frequently win the most.

So, the question is, how can a team win when they canâ€™t spend so much?
The basic idea that Oakland (and other teams) used is to *redefine* what
makes a player *good*. I.e., figure out what player characteristics
translated into *wins*. Once they realized that teams were not really
pricing players using these characteristics, they could exploit this to
pay for undervalued players, players that were *good* according to their
metrics, but were not recognized as such by other teams, and therefore
not as expensive.

You can get more information about this period in baseball history from:

-   [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moneyball)\
-   [The Moneyball
    book](http://www.amazon.com/Moneyball-The-Winning-Unfair-Game/dp/0393324818)\
-   [The Moneyball movie](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1210166/)

BTW, you may find this post informative:
[https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/dont-be-fooled-by-baseballs-small-budget-success-stories/](https://fivethirtyeight.com/features/dont-be-fooled-by-baseballs-small-budget-success-stories/)

The Data
========

We will be using the same dataset as HW2 (the SQL homework). Remember
this is a useful database on baseball teams, players and seasons curated
by Sean Lahman available at
[http://www.seanlahman.com/baseball-archive/statistics/](http://www.seanlahman.com/baseball-archive/statistics/).
The database has been made available as a `sqlite` database
[https://github.com/jknecht/baseball-archive-sqlite](https://github.com/jknecht/baseball-archive-sqlite).
You can check HW2 again for instructions setting up.

The question
============

We want to understand how efficient teams have been historically at
spending money and getting wins in return. In the case of Moneyball, one
would expect that Oakland was not much more efficient than other teams
in their spending before 2000, were much more efficient (they made a
movie about it after all) between 2000 and 2005, and by then other teams
may have caught up. Your job in this project is to see how this is
reflected in the data we have.

Wrangling
=========

The data you need to answer these questions is in the `Salaries` and
`Teams` tables of the database.

**Problem 1** Using SQL, write a query to compute the total payroll and
winning percentage (number of wins / number of games \* 100) for each
team (that is, for each `teamID` and `yearID` combination). You should
include other columns that will help when performing EDA later on (e.g.,
franchise ids, number of wins, number of games).

**Note:** We will only use data for years 1990-2014 (inclusive) for the
project. You can filter entities in your SQL query for Problem 1, or
later when you use the result of this query below.

As in HW2 you will write your query inside an Rmarkdown document. You
can use something like this to capture the result of the SQL query into
a data frame for use later on in the Rmarkdown documnt:

    ```{r connect_db}
    db <- DBI::dbConnect(RSQLite::SQLite(), "lahman2016.sqlite")
    ```

    ```{sql run_query, connection=db, output.var="payroll_df"}
    select ...
    from ...
    where ...
    ```

    ```{r print_result}
    payroll_df %>%
      head()
    ```

More info on using SQL within Rmarkdown here:
[https://rmarkdown.rstudio.com/authoring\_knitr\_engines.html\#sql](https://rmarkdown.rstudio.com/authoring_knitr_engines.html#sql)

Include a sentence or two indicating how you dealt with any missing data
in these two relations. Specifically, indicate if there is missing data
in either table, and how the type of join you used determines how you
dealt with this missing data. One note, for SQL you have to be mindful
of integer vs.Â float division.

*Note*: This combination of SQL and R (which you will use shortly). Is a
very common workflow in Data Science projects. For data in databases,
you use SQL to extract data (aggregates for example) computed on the
database server itself. Then use those results for exploratory and other
downstream analysis in R or python.

Exploratory data analysis
=========================

Payroll distribution
--------------------

**Problem 2**. Write code to produce a plot (or plots) that shows the
distribution of payrolls across teams conditioned on time (from
1990-2014). Note: you may create a single plot as long as the
distributions for each year are **clearly** distinguishable (e.g., a
single plot overlaying histograms is not OK).

**Question 1**. What statements can you make about the distribution of
payrolls conditioned on time based on these plots? Remember you can make
statements in terms of central tendency, spread, etc.

**Problem 3**. Write code to produce a plot (or plots) that specifically
shows at least one of the statements you made in Question 1. For
example, if you make a statement that there is a trend for payrolls to
decrease over time, make a plot of a statistic for central tendency
(e.g., mean payroll) vs.Â time to show that specifically.

Correlation between payroll and winning percentage
--------------------------------------------------

**Problem 4**. Write code to discretize year into five time periods
(using the `cut` function with parameter `breaks=5`) and then make a
scatterplot showing mean winning percentage (y-axis) vs.Â mean payroll
(x-axis) for each of the five time periods. You could add a regression
line (using `geom_smooth(method=lm)`) in each scatter plot to ease
interpretation. Note: look at the discussion on *faceting* in the
visualization EDA lecture notes.

**Question 2**. What can you say about team payrolls across these
periods? Are there any teams that standout as being particularly good at
paying for wins across these time periods? What can you say about the
Oakland Aâ€™s spending efficiency across these time periods (labeling
points in the scatterplot can help interpretation).

Data transformations
====================

Standardization across years
----------------------------

It looks like comparing payrolls across years is problematic so letâ€™s do
a transformation that will help with these comparisons.

**Problem 5**. Write `dplyr` code to create a new variable in your
dataset that standardizes payroll conditioned on year. So, this column
for team ii

in year jj

should equal

standardized\_payrollij=payrollijâˆ’payrollâ‹…jÂ¯Â¯Â¯Â¯Â¯Â¯Â¯Â¯Â¯Â¯Â¯Â¯Â¯Â¯Â¯Â¯Â¯Â¯sâ‹…jstandardized\_payrollij=payrollijâˆ’payrollâ‹…jÂ¯sâ‹…j

where payrollâ‹…jÂ¯Â¯Â¯Â¯Â¯Â¯Â¯Â¯Â¯Â¯Â¯Â¯Â¯Â¯Â¯Â¯Â¯Â¯payrollâ‹…jÂ¯

is the average payroll for year jj

, and sâ‹…jsâ‹…j

is the standard deviation of payroll for year jj

.

**Problem 6**. Repeat the same plots as Problem 4, but use this new
standardized payroll variable.

**Question 3**. Discuss how the plots from Problem 4 and Problem 6
reflect the transformation you did on the payroll variable. Consider
data range, center and spread along with observed correlation in your
discussion. Some of these change after transformation, others donâ€™t.

Expected wins
-------------

Itâ€™s hard to see global trends across time periods using these multiple
plots, but now that we have standardized payrolls across time, we can
look at a single plot showing correlation between winning percentage and
payroll across time.

**Problem 7**. Make a *single* scatter plot of winning percentage
(y-axis) vs.Â standardized payroll (x-axis). Add a regression line to
highlight the relationship (again using `geom_smooth(method=lm)`).

The regression line gives you expected winning percentage as a function
of standardized payroll. Looking at the regression line, it looks like
teams that spend roughly the average payroll in a given year will win
50% of their games (i.e. `win_pct` is 50 when `standardized_payroll` is
0), and teams increase 5% wins for every 2 standard units of payroll
(i.e., `win_pct` is 55 when `standardized_payroll` is 2). We will see
how this is done in general using linear regression later in the course.

From these observations we can calculate an *expected win percentage*
for team ii

in year jj

as

expected\_win\_pctij=50+2.5Ã—standardized\_payrollijexpected\_win\_pctij=50+2.5Ã—standardized\_payrollij

Spending efficiency
-------------------

Using this result, we can now create a single plot that makes it easier
to compare teams efficiency. The idea is to create a new measurement
unit for each team based on their winning percentage and their expected
winning percentage that we can plot across time summarizing how
efficient each team is in their spending.

**Problem 8**. Write `dplyr` code to calculate spending efficiency for
each team

efficiencyij=win\_pctijâˆ’expected\_win\_pctijefficiencyij=win\_pctijâˆ’expected\_win\_pctij

for team ii

in year jj

, where `expected_win_pct` is given above.

Make a line plot with year on the x-axis and efficiency on the y-axis. A
good set of teams to plot are Oakland, the New York Yankees, Boston,
Atlanta and Tampa Bay (teamIDs `OAK`, `BOS`, `NYA`, `ATL`, `TBA`). That
plot can be hard to read since there is so much year to year variation
for each team. One way to improve it is to use `geom_smooth` instead of
`geom_line`.

**Question 4**. What can you learn from this plot compared to the set of
plots you looked at in Question 2 and 3? How good was Oaklandâ€™s
efficiency during the Moneyball period?

Submission
----------

Prepare and knit to PDF an Rmarkdown file that includes for each
Problem: (a) code to carry out the step discussed, (b) output showing
enough of the result of your code to understand the result, and (c) a
short prose description of how your code works. Remember, the writeup
you are preparing is intended to communicate your data analysis
effectively. Thoughtlessly showing large amounts of output in your
writeup defeats that purpose.

All axes in plots should be labeled in an informative manner. Your
answers to any question that refers to a plot should include both (a) a
text description of your plot, and (b) a sentence or two of
interpretation as it relates to the question asked.
